README.md, before:

<div align="center">

# xhec-mlops-project-student

[![CI status](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/actions/workflows/ci.yaml?query=branch%3Amaster)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%20%7C%203.10-blue.svg)]()

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![Imports: isort](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20imports-isort-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=ef8336)](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/)
[![Linting: ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charliermarsh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-informational?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/blob/main/.pre-commit-config.yaml)
</div>

This repository has for purpose to industrialize the [Abalone age prediction](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rodolfomendes/abalone-dataset) Kaggle contest.

<details>
<summary>Details on the Abalone Dataset</summary>

The age of abalone is determined by cutting the shell through the cone, staining it, and counting the number of rings through a microscope -- a boring and time-consuming task. Other measurements, which are easier to obtain, are used to predict the age.

**Goal**: predict the age of abalone (column "Rings") from physical measurements ("Shell weight", "Diameter", etc...)

You can download the dataset on the [Kaggle page](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rodolfomendes/abalone-dataset)

</details>

## Table of Contents

- [xhec-mlops-project-student](#xhec-mlops-project-student)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Deliverables and notation](#deliverables-and-notation)
    - [Deliverables](#deliverables)
    - [Notation](#notation)
  - [Steps to reproduce to build the deliverable](#steps-to-reproduce-to-build-the-deliverable)
    - [Pull requests in this project](#pull-requests-in-this-project)
    - [Tips to work on this project](#tips-to-work-on-this-project)

## Deliverables and notation

### Deliverables

The deliverable of this project is a copy of this repository with the industrialization of the Abalone age prediction model.
The industrialization takes the form of an API (which runs locally) that can be used to make predictions on new data.

### Notation

The work will be noted on the following criteria:

- **Clarity** and quality of code 
  - good module structure
  - naming conventions
  - (bonus) docstrings, formatting, type hints
- **Reproducibility** and clarity of instructions to run the code
  - Having a clear README.md with the steps to reproduce to test the code
  - Having a working docker image with the required features (see bellow)
- Having the following **features** in your project
  - Clear README with:
    - context of the project
    - clear steps to reproduce to run the code
  - A working API which can be used to make predictions on new data
    - The API can run on a docker container
    - The API has validation on input data (use Pydantic)
  - The code to get the trained model and encoder is in a separate module and must reproducible (not necessarily in a docker container)
  - The workflows to train the model and to make the inference (prediction of the age of abalone) are in separate modules and use Prefect `flow` and `task` objects

## Steps to reproduce to build the deliverable

To help you with the structure and order of steps to perform in this project, we have created different templates for pull requests. 
Each branch in this repository corresponds to a future pull request and has an attached markdown file with the instructions to perform the tasks of the pull request.
Each branch starts with a number.
You can follow the order of the branches to build your project and collaborate.

> [!NOTE]
> There are "TODO" in the code of the different branches. Each "TODO" corresponds to a task to perform to build the project.

**You can follow the following steps**:

- If not done already, create a GitHub account
- If not done already, create a [Kaggle account](https://www.kaggle.com/account/login?phase=startRegisterTab&returnUrl=%2F) (so you can download the dataset)
- Fork this repository (one person per group)

**WARNING**: make sure to **unselect** the option "Copy the `master` branch only", so you have all the branches in the forked repository.

- Add the different members of your group as admin to your forked repository
- Follow the order of the numbered branches and for each branch:
  - Do as many commits as necessary to perform the task indicated in the corresponding markdown file
  - Open a pull request from this branch to the main branch of your forked repository
  - Once done, merge the pull request in your the main branch of your forked repository

### Pull requests in this project

Github [Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests) are a way to propose changes to a repository. They have for purpose to integrate the work of *feature branches* into the main branch of the repository, with a collaborative review process.


### Tips to work on this project

- Use a virtual environment to install the dependencies of the project (conda or virtualenv for instance)

- Once your virtual environment is activated, install the pre-commit hooks to automatically format your code before each commit:

```bash
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

This will guarantee that your code is formatted correctly and of good quality before each commit.

- Use a `requirements.in` file to list the dependencies of your project. You can use the following command to generate a `requirements.txt` file from a `requirements.in` file:

```bash
pip-compile requirements.in
```

Commit message:

doc: add PR indications when working on forked repository

README.md, after:

<div align="center">

# xhec-mlops-project-student

[![CI status](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/actions/workflows/ci.yaml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/actions/workflows/ci.yaml?query=branch%3Amaster)
[![Python Version](https://img.shields.io/badge/python-3.9%20%7C%203.10-blue.svg)]()

[![Code style: black](https://img.shields.io/badge/code%20style-black-000000.svg)](https://github.com/psf/black)
[![Imports: isort](https://img.shields.io/badge/%20imports-isort-%231674b1?style=flat&labelColor=ef8336)](https://pycqa.github.io/isort/)
[![Linting: ruff](https://img.shields.io/endpoint?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/charliermarsh/ruff/main/assets/badge/v2.json)](https://github.com/astral-sh/ruff)
[![Pre-commit](https://img.shields.io/badge/pre--commit-enabled-informational?logo=pre-commit&logoColor=white)](https://github.com/artefactory/xhec-mlops-project-student/blob/main/.pre-commit-config.yaml)
</div>

This repository has for purpose to industrialize the [Abalone age prediction](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rodolfomendes/abalone-dataset) Kaggle contest.

<details>
<summary>Details on the Abalone Dataset</summary>

The age of abalone is determined by cutting the shell through the cone, staining it, and counting the number of rings through a microscope -- a boring and time-consuming task. Other measurements, which are easier to obtain, are used to predict the age.

**Goal**: predict the age of abalone (column "Rings") from physical measurements ("Shell weight", "Diameter", etc...)

You can download the dataset on the [Kaggle page](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/rodolfomendes/abalone-dataset)

</details>

## Table of Contents

- [xhec-mlops-project-student](#xhec-mlops-project-student)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [Deliverables and notation](#deliverables-and-notation)
    - [Deliverables](#deliverables)
    - [Notation](#notation)
  - [Steps to reproduce to build the deliverable](#steps-to-reproduce-to-build-the-deliverable)
    - [Pull requests in this project](#pull-requests-in-this-project)
    - [Tips to work on this project](#tips-to-work-on-this-project)

## Deliverables and notation

### Deliverables

The deliverable of this project is a copy of this repository with the industrialization of the Abalone age prediction model.
The industrialization takes the form of an API (which runs locally) that can be used to make predictions on new data.

### Notation

The work will be noted on the following criteria:

- **Clarity** and quality of code 
  - good module structure
  - naming conventions
  - (bonus) docstrings, formatting, type hints
- **Reproducibility** and clarity of instructions to run the code
  - Having a clear README.md with the steps to reproduce to test the code
  - Having a working docker image with the required features (see bellow)
- Having the following **features** in your project
  - Clear README with:
    - context of the project
    - clear steps to reproduce to run the code
  - A working API which can be used to make predictions on new data
    - The API can run on a docker container
    - The API has validation on input data (use Pydantic)
  - The code to get the trained model and encoder is in a separate module and must reproducible (not necessarily in a docker container)
  - The workflows to train the model and to make the inference (prediction of the age of abalone) are in separate modules and use Prefect `flow` and `task` objects

## Steps to reproduce to build the deliverable

To help you with the structure and order of steps to perform in this project, we have created different templates for pull requests. 
Each branch in this repository corresponds to a future pull request and has an attached markdown file with the instructions to perform the tasks of the pull request.
Each branch starts with a number.
You can follow the order of the branches to build your project and collaborate.

> [!NOTE]
> There are "TODO" in the code of the different branches. Each "TODO" corresponds to a task to perform to build the project.

**You can follow the following steps**:

- If not done already, create a GitHub account
- If not done already, create a [Kaggle account](https://www.kaggle.com/account/login?phase=startRegisterTab&returnUrl=%2F) (so you can download the dataset)
- Fork this repository (one person per group)

**WARNING**: make sure to **unselect** the option "Copy the `master` branch only", so you have all the branches in the forked repository.

- Add the different members of your group as admin to your forked repository
- Follow the order of the numbered branches and for each branch:
  - Do as many commits as necessary to perform the task indicated in the corresponding markdown file
  - Open a pull request from this branch to the main branch of your forked repository
  - Once done, merge the pull request in your the main branch of your forked repository

### Pull requests in this project

Github [Pull Requests](https://docs.github.com/articles/about-pull-requests) are a way to propose changes to a repository. They have for purpose to integrate the work of *feature branches* into the main branch of the repository, with a collaborative review process.

**PR tips:**

Make sure that you select your own repository when selecting the base repository:

![PR Wrong](assets/PR_wrong.png)

It should rather look like this:

![PR Right](assets/PR_right.png)

### Tips to work on this project

- Use a virtual environment to install the dependencies of the project (conda or virtualenv for instance)

- Once your virtual environment is activated, install the pre-commit hooks to automatically format your code before each commit:

```bash
pip install pre-commit
pre-commit install
```

This will guarantee that your code is formatted correctly and of good quality before each commit.

- Use a `requirements.in` file to list the dependencies of your project. You can use the following command to generate a `requirements.txt` file from a `requirements.in` file:

```bash
pip-compile requirements.in
```
